I - THE DE RUNE LEGACY
KINGDOM OF FRANCE
- NOVEMBER 1348
- ROBERT: You are dawdling Amicia!
How will you be able to follow the lords at hunt?
- AMICIA: (chuckles) Is that your only ambition for me? To follow?
I will beat them and I will watch them eat my dirt as I forge ahead!
But for that, I shall need a good horse.
- ROBERT: You've been going on about for this walk for ages... Why here?
- AMICIA: The tree!
- ROBERT: Which tree?
- AMICIA: The APPLE tree, father. I want to take the Knight's challange once more!
- ROBERT: The Knight's challenge... But you're not ten years old anymore. You know...
Robert:
- AMICIA: Oh please Father! I've trained hard for this!
- ROBERT: All right, let's go!
- AMICIA: Look at Lion! The Guvenne beast is in a hurry to fight it out!
- (Lion barking)
- ROBERT: (laughters) Your beast thinks with its stomach, as usual...
- AMICIA: Well there's something you both have in common!
- ROBERT: (chuckles) That's harsh...
(Lion barking)
- AMICIA: Go on boy! You'll find a prey! I believe in you!
- ROBERT: Don't get your hopes up... Let's keep going...
- (Lion barking in the background)
Look... Your mother's ribbon is still here!
This is where I courted her, you know...
- AMICIA: Yes Father... I know... If only she could come with us...
- ROBERT: We all have obligations. Amicia. You...
- (Lion barking playfully in the background)
- You know, in a family...
Hey! I'm trying to tell her something!
- AMICIA: (chuckles) Such authority, Knight De Rune!
- ROBERT: Go! And bring something back for once!
Right. As I was saying... We all have obligations.
I have to manager these lands.
Your mother has to take care of your brother, and you...
- AMICIA: And I hardly ever see you! I see Mother even less...
- ROBERT: Listen... We are here for you now, so...
Follow me, daughter!
- AMICIA: Hey! Wait! (laughters)
- ROBERT: I hope you have your sling!
- AMICIA: Of course!
- ROBERT: Come on then!
Do you dare to enter the Trial's gate?
- AMICIA: Amicia de Rune fears nothing!
- ROBERT: This apple tree was planted when you were born...
It will prove your worth!
- AMICIA: Sir Knight! What are the terms of the test?
- ROBERT: The Sacred Apples of The... er... Sacred Apple Tree have been corrupted by a Great Evil!
If you destroy six of these rotten apples by the time I count to ten...
I will make you a Knight.
- AMICIA: I accept your challenge!
- ROBERT: I can see some stones near the trunk over there. Go and get them, and tell me when you're ready.
- AMICIA: Ready! I'll show you I'm not a child anymore...
- ROBERT: All right, come back! Stand behind this trunk. You'll shoot from here.
- AMICIA: It shall be done!
- ROBERT: So here we go!
One
Two
Three
Four
Five. Come on, Amicia!
Six
Seven
- ROBERT: Eight
- AMICIA: And this is how Amicia becomes a true knight!
- ROBERT: Nine
- AMICIA: There!
- ROBERT: Well well... I must say I'm impressed!...
But your sling is frightfully noisy...
- AMICIA: It was a present... from you...
- ROBERT: Oh yes... I'd quite forgotten.
- (Lion barking)
- Goodness... What's up with him?
- AMICIA: He must have smelled a rabbit. Come on, quickly!
- ROBERT: You go ahead. I'll catch up with you.
You are much faster than I am.
- AMICIA: Lion! Wait for me!
Lion! A hunting dog... is not supposed to lose its hunter!
Lion! Where did he go?
Ah! There you are!
What did you smell?
Oh gosh! A wild boar! What a good dog!
- ROBERT: Amicia! Did he find something?
- AMICIA: Shhh... Come and see!
A wild boar!
- ROBERT: Some game... This will do nicely for a little feast.
- AMICIA: I could use my sling!
- ROBERT: That might work... but you'll need to get closer.
This grass will keep you hidden if you stay low.
- AMICIA: It's drinking. Time to make my move.
- Oh no, it saw me!
- ROBERT: Find a way to sneak up! You have to hit the head.
Careful! You have to aim for the head.
- AMICIA: I'm doing my best. I want that feast!
- ROBERT: I know. You can do it, my darling.
- ROBERT: Does hunger always make you this accurate?
- AMICIA: Huh...
- ROBERT: But the feast isn't on your plate quite yet!
- AMICIA: Oh no! No no no! Go Lion, don't lose the scent!
I promise you, tonight, we shall dine like kings!
- ROBERT: I have no doubt we will!
- AMICIA: Don't give up, Lion!
I'm coming, Lion! Keep him there and you'll get a piece for yourself!
The boar... It's bleeding...
He's stop barking... He must have found it...
Argh! These breeches were almost new...
Someone's not going to be happy...
The trees... What did that?
Lion! Come here!
It's... It's the boar... But how...?
Lion couldn't have done that...
Lion! Come here! Lion!
Lion! I'm here! I'm coming!
My dog... Who... Who did this?
No! Lion! No!
- ROBERT: What devilry is this?
We must go... immediately!
TITLE: A PLAGUE TALE - INNOCENCE
- ROBERT: I shall organise a hunt.
Go and find your mother, tell her I must speak with her.
She's probably...
- AMICIA: ...looking after Hugo. Yes. Of course.
- ROBERT: Amicia.
He was a good dog.
- SERVANT 1: Where are the rivers for reinforcing the door?
- SERVANT 2: I haven't been able to make them yet.
- SERVANT 1: Did you hear about the English troops arriving?
- SERVANT 2: Erg...
- FLORE: Oh! Lady Amicia! Did you have a good walk?
- AMICIA: Later, Flore... Tell the others that the forest is out of bounds until further notice.
- FLORE: Er... yes. I'll... I'll tell them.
- AMICIA: Take care of Lion, please... He deserves his place at your side...
...even if he was a bit naughty sometimes... Goodbye my darling dog...
I hope mother's not too busy.
- SERVANT 3: This sunshine won't last long...
The rain has already ruined the harvest.
People are dying of hunger.
We're lucky to be in this house... mark my word...
(GOOSE AGREES)
- SERVANT 3: You're right about that!
- AMICIA: Ah! Gabrielle... Is mother upstairs?
- GABRIELLE: Yes, she spent the night there.
The little one had another one of his attacks.
- AMICIA: She won't be in a good mood...
- SERVANT 4: Did you hear what happened at the village?
- SERVANT 5: People being bitten? Kids, too. Can you imagine?
- SERVANT 4: Each time it happens at night.
- SERVANT 5: Famine, war on our doorstep, and now vampires...
- SERVANT 4: We must have sinned something rotten to be punished so...
Oh! Lady Amicia! Hello! I didn't see you there...
- SERVANT 5: Yes, hello, milady!
- AMICIA: Hello!
- SERVANT 6: (harmonising)
- AMICIA: (smells) The smell of your cooking warms the heart...
- SERVANT 6: Oh, it's nothing much, but I think you'll like it.
- AMICIA: I'm sure I will.
- LOUISE: Yes, Lady Béatrice, leave it to me.
- AMICIA: Louise, have you been seen mother?
- LOUISE: Indeed. Erm, do you... Do you  want to see her?
- AMICIA: It's important. Father's orders.
- LOUISE: Oh, in that case... I have to finish your room.
By the way, I've left a little something for you on your bed.
Come and see if you'd like.
- AMICIA: Ah, thank you.
Mother?
- BÉATRICE: You know you are not supposed to be here...
- AMICIA: I know, but... something attacked Lion in the forest!
- BÉATRICE: My dear, I really wish I had the time to listen to your adventures but...
(HORSESHOES NOISES IN THE BACKGROUND)
- AMICIA: But it's true! Lion was lying there on the ground...
...and then he was...
- BÉATRICE: Shhh... You are to stay here with your brother.
- AMICIA: What? Why? What's happening?
- BÉATRICE: Close the door behind me and do not open the shutters...
...whatever happens.
- AMICIA: But... Hugo...
- BÉATRICE: He is not contagious. I realise you hardly know him...
...but he will be alright. Trust me, Amicia.
- AMICIA: Yes, Mother.
All these potions... Mother...
- Will you ever be able to cure him?
- HUGO: Mummy?
- AMICIA: How long has he been here? Four years? Five?
- HUGO: Mummy, are you there?
- AMICIA: Where is he? Hugo?
- HUGO: Come and see.
- AMICIA: (hesistating) It's me
Your sister... Amicia...
- HUGO: Hello.
- AMICIA: We haven't seen each other much...
- Mummy will be back soon.
- SOLDIER: Move! Come one!
- NICHOLAS: Did he talk?
- SOLDIER 1: No, Lord Nicholas.
- SOLDIER 2: He killed two of our men.
- NICHOLAS: Where is he?
I won't ask again... Where is your son?
- ROBERT: In good hands.
- AMICIA: (breathe heavily in shock)
- NICHOLAS: Search the house!
(heavy heartbeat sound)
- HUGO: Is that Mummy?
(loud door knocking sound)
- AMICIA: Hugo, come here!
- HUGO: What's happening?
- AMICIA: Shhh...
- SOLDIER 1 : I know you're here kid! I don't have time to play games.
- SOLDIER 2: Where the fuck is he?
- AMICIA: (whispering) Stay down.
- GABRIELLE: (whispering) Hugo, it's me, Gabrielle! Come here, quickly!
- SOLDIER 2: Hey you! What the hell are you doing? Where's the kid, huh?
- AMICIA: Let's go
- GABRIELLE: Leave him alone!
- SOLDIER 2: Shut you mouth! He belongs to the Inquisition!
- GABRIELLE: But he's just a child! You've lost your minds...
(SOLDIER 2 HITS GABRIELLE)
- SOLDIER 3: You should have handed over the child! Was it really that hard?
- SOLDIER 3: There you go!
- AMICIA: Oh no!
- HUGO: Lea...
Lea: Stop! I don't know anything!
(SOLDIER 3 STABS LEA)
- SOLDIER 3: There you go! That'll teach you.
- SERVANT 1: No! I'm begging you... Hugo's not here...
- SOLDIER 3: And you, stay 'ere! Let's make this very clear: Tell me...
WHERE... IS... HUGO... DE RUNE?
(SOLDIER 3 KICKS - SERVANT 1)
- HUGO: Amicia, what's going on?
- AMICIA: Mother... I have to find mother...
She'll... she'll know...
- Oh my God! Louise...
- SOLDIER 4: You! Think it's funny making me run like that?
- LOUISE: Please!
(SOLDIER 4 STABS LOUISE)
- SOLDIER 5: Where are your mistress's notes?
Speak up! Don't make me hurt you again!
- SERVANT 2: I have no idea! I only do the laundry!
- SOLDIER 5: Listen, this is your last chance...
Tell us what you know about your mistress's research!
- SERVANT 2: Even if I knew I wouldn't say anything!
Lady Béatrice is a good soul!
- SOLDIER 5: Right, there are still rooms to be searched! Finish it!
- SOLDIER 6: Well well well...
Where do you think you're going?
- BÉATRICE: My children!
- AMICIA: What is happening?
- BÉATRICE: We will be alright, do you hear me? Come on!
Hugo, take your sister's hand. I'll go first...
...and you just have to follow me, alright?
We have to cross the gardens, Amicia...
...hold your brother's hand and follow me in silence, alright?
- HUGO: Yes...
- AMICIA: Yes...
- SOLDIER 7: Guards! Watch the exits! No one gets out of here alive!
- AMICIA: They're everywhere.
- BÉATRICE: Trust me... through the grass... They won't be able to see us.
- SOLDIER 8: Hey, I got another one!
- SOLDIER 9: Who is he?
- SOLDIER 8: The gardener. Knows the family well.
Says he watched the kids grow up.
GARDENER: Yes... The little one loves flowers. I used to take him some.
- SOLDIER 9: Flowers? Pffsh! You can do better than that. Take him!
- SOLDIER: Screamming for mercy won't make you run faster, my lad.
- BÉATRICE: Come on!
Follow me!
- HUGO: Wait... I'm coming.
- BÉATRICE: Amicia, you have to help him next time!
- AMICIA: Sorry, I...
- HUGO: Oww... My head... Mummy!
- AMICIA: What is wrong with him?
- BÉATRICE: An attack.
Listen to my voice, Hugo.
You know how this goes...
- HUGO: My eyes...
My head...
- BÉATRICE: Listen to me... Breathe...
Think of the cloud that you breathe in and blow out.
In... out...
- Like that... slowly...
- AMICIA: Mother, we can't stayy here!
- BÉATRICE: Give him a little time.
Are you alright, Hugo?
- HUGO: I... I think so...
- BÉATRICE: So, let's continue...
Courage, my darling.
- AMICIA: (whispering) We can go now.
- BÉATRICE: (whispering) It's too risky with Hugo.
(whispering) He's slower than us.
- AMICIA: (whispering) There are pots over there. I could cross, make a diversion.
- BÉATRICE: Alone?
- AMICIA: Yes... You'd have more time.
I can let you know when it's alright.
- BÉATRICE: Be very careful.
- SOLDIER: What was that noise?
- AMICIA: I need to call them now.
Pssst... Come here!
- BÉATRICE: We're coming.
- AMICIA: Come on, come quickly.
- BÉATRICE: Well done!
This way.
- AMICIA: (whispering) The garden gate! We should be able to get out of here.
- BÉATRICE: (whispering) There's one guard left.
- AMICIA: (whispering) The scarecrow... I used to practise firing at it.
- HUGO: (whispering) But he will come this way.
- BÉATRICE: (whispering) Yes, but we can wait until he goes away again.
- AMICIA: (whispering) Alright, leave this to me.
- SOLDIER: What the hell was that?
- But I was sure...
- AMICIA: (whispering) Go away! Get out of here!
- BÉATRICE: (whispering) Now!
- AMICIA: (sigh of relief)
SERVANT: (whispering) Ah! You're alive! This way!
This way. Follow me!
- BÉATRICE: My darling... Go and hide, quickly now!
SERVANT: Madame... They are here.
- BÉATRICE: Amicia, you have to take your brother to Laurentius.
- AMICIA: The doctor?
- BÉATRICE: Yes. He helped me treat Hugo. He will look after you.
- AMICIA: And... What about you?
-You have to come.
- BÉATRICE: You do not need me, Amicia. You are...
- AMICIA: But I do need you! I need you!
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
- BÉATRICE: Hurry now! Follow the river, it will lead you to Laurentius.
- AMICIA: Mother! No!
Hugo, follow me! NOW!
- SOLDIER 1: Kill the sister! Take the boy alive!
- SOLDIER 2: - SOLDIERs! This way!
- HUGO: What's happening? Where's Mummy?
- AMICIA: She'll catch up with us! Run! As fast as you can!
- SOLDIER 3: Be careful, goddammit! Don't hurt the child!
- HUGO: The ground is shaking! Amicia, the ground is shaking!
- AMICIA: Don't stop! They're right behind us!
Straight on! Carry straight on!
- HUGO: But where are we going? Mummy won't be able to find us!
- AMICIA: Just keep running!
- HUGO: Amicia! We have to go back and look for Mummy!
- AMICIA: We can't! We can't let them catch us!
- SOLDIER 4: What the fuck is going on? Save the boy!
- SOLDIER 5: Help! I need help!
- AMICIA: Where... where should we go?
I don't know... I don't know...
- HUGO: There's something in the ground, Amicia!
- SOLDIER 6: Fall back! Out of the woods! Everyone get out of the woods!
- HUGO: Are we going to die?
- AMICIA: No! We have to lose them!
Oh no! They're everywhere!
- HUGO: What do we do?
- AMICIA: Take a deep breath!
Jump!